[music playing]
[theme music]
No beer?
Oh, I think Mark
took the last one.
I'll get you more beer, Dan.
After all, it is
Thanksgiving, the day
where I do everything
and the rest of you
sit around like Plymouth Rock.
DAN: Fine, don't get the beer.
No, I feel I should, Dan.
I mean, you do too much, what
with having to carve the turkey
tomorrow from 5:00 to 5:10.
Mom, why don't you let me
do the cooking this year?
I mean, ever since
we've moved in here,
I've just felt like a burden,
especially seeing how much
Dad hates having Mark around.
Oh, Becky, you're no burden.
What about Dad hating Mark?
What makes you feel
like you're a burden?
Come on, Mom.
You do everything for us.
Please?
OK.
I'll let you do it.
I'll let you do all the
cooking, all the cleaning up.
And all the laundry.
The laundry?
I took a shot.
[phone ringing]
Hey, by the way,
you're out of beer.
[phone ringing]
Hello?
Oh, hi, Darlene.
What time is your bus coming in?
Actually, Mom I was wondering
if instead of coming home
it'd be OK if I went to
Michigan to see David.
You know, I don't really
get to see him that often.
Fine, go ahead.
Go.
DARLENE (ON PHONE): Thanks.
[sigh] Don't feel guilty about
missing your great grandma.
I'm sure she can hang
on 'til Christmas.
OK, bye.
Wow, she bought it?
Yeah.
We should join together
and give thanks.
[theme music]
[laughing]
[music playing]
JACKIE: Hello!
BECKY: Hey, Jacks.
Did you bring the cranberry
sauce like I asked?
Oh, isn't that cute.
Just like a little Roseanne.
What time did you to get up?
Look at the circles
under your eyes!
It's not cute anymore.
Need some help with that?
No, no, no.
I got it.
No, I'm good.
I see you got the, uh,
canned yams and the carrots.
By the way, I invited Fred.
And the potato--
Roseanne!
Well, Dan said he doesn't
have any family here,
and, you know,
it's Thanksgiving,
and nobody should be
alone on Thanksgiving.
Except maybe Mom.
Alone?
Really?
But still, ever since
he got me pregnant
Mom's been pushing me to go out
with him, and if she sees him
here she's just going to
think I listened to her.
If she thinks I
listened to her, she's
going to keep talking to me.
Well, don't worry about it.
We'll just tell her
that Fred wanted
turkey when he slept with you.
I just caught the biggest
rat you've ever seen
in that trap out in the garage.
Unless-- what color
is the Martins' dog?
Need some help
taking care of that?
No, I'll get it later.
You sure?
Yeah, I'm sure.
Suit yourself
Thanks a lot, Dad.
Mark, wait!
Jeez.
Can't you even make an effort
to try to be nice to him.
I don't know, Roseanne.
I just find it a
little awkward sharing
a house with a guy who eloped
with my 17-year-old daughter.
And now he's run
off with my beer.
Hello.
DAN: Hey, Fred.
- Hi!
- Hey, Jackie.
Glad you could make it, Fred.
Yeah, well, with 16 cousins my
family could use the extra room
at the kid's table.
16 cousins.
I didn't know Fred
had 16 cousins.
We're a fertile
people, Jackie.
You know, Fred, us speaking
here is making it very hard
for them to talk about
us behind our back.
To the living room!
For football!
No family for
Thanksgiving, huh?
Stop trying to
shove us together.
Correct me if I'm wrong,
but I think the two of you
have already been
shoved together.
[doorbell ringing]
Happy Thanksgiving, everybody!
You know, I had a lot
more chips in there
but Shirley ate them
all on the way down.
Hello, Jackie!
Is it true you're going
to let little Betty cook
the whole dinner
this Thanksgiving?
Mother, hang your coat
up there, right over there.
All right.
Roseanne, it's awful.
This started last month
and it's gotten worse.
She keeps confusing me
with your Aunt Shirley.
She forgets everything.
I'm afraid your Nana
Mary's mind is going.
Oh, I know this little guy!
You're, um, uh, uh, uh--
DJ!
That's right, of course, DJ.
All right, honey.
You better run home now, we're
going to have our dinner.
Hi, Nana Mary!
Hello, little Betty!
Oh, it's nice--
Uh--
It's nice to see
her again, she's cute.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Listen, her name is
Becky, not Betty.
Yeah!
And I'm not
Jackie, I'm Roseanne.
Roseanne.
- Roseanne?
Yes.
Jackie is the one
that tried to iron
your neck when she was four.
Oh, my aching butt.
That wasn't Jackie,
that was you, Roseanne.
Well, what's going on?
Listen, I'm not senile.
I'm just having a little
fun with your mother.
Wow, that is so cool.
Fred!
This is my Nana Mary.
Nice to meet you.
Nice to meet you, Fred.
You're the guy finally
knocked up Jackie, huh?
I hear that you busted
right through the condom.
I don't think I should
sit too close to him, huh?
Is this too close?
I see Fred is here.
How with it for our Jackie to
invite the father of her child
to Thanksgiving.
No,
She didn't invite him.
I did.
Well, what is wrong
with the girl, Roseanne?
I keep telling her that
child needs a father!
Well, that's
exactly what's wrong.
You keep telling her that,
she's never going to do it.
So, what should I do then?
Just say nothing?
No, I mean, I would
enjoy that, but--
see, if you really want Jackie
to get together with him,
then you should tell
her that you hate him.
That's ridiculous!
No it isn't.
Our whole lives
we've done everything
just to disappoint you.
Why do you think
I live like this?
Fine, Roseanne.
If I have to lie in order to
give advice to my daughter,
then so be it.
By the way, your cheekbone
makeup is lovely!
The more you use,
the more I like it.
Mark, it's Thanksgiving
and you're a guy.
Your job is to be out
there watching football.
I don't know
anything about it,
I haven't cared about
football since I
was about eight years old.
Well, just say
what do you know.
Dad'll appreciate the effort.
Or you could stay
in here with us girls
and talk about
Jackie's hemorrhoids.
Standing's getting to be worse
than sitting, I don't know!
So it's, uh, too bad about
old Brian Piccolo, huh?
[music playing]
Hello, Jackie.
Hi, Mom.
You and Nana Mary
have a nice drive?
Yes!
Now she's in there
entertaining Fred.
Hmph!
What's that supposed to mean?
Oh, you want me in
there entertaining Fred.
I told you before, Mom,
he's not my boyfriend.
No?
Well thank heaven.
Him being here for Thanksgiving
and all, I was afraid he was.
Phew!
You don't want him
to be my boyfriend?
Him?
Ish!
Why not?
Because he's not good.
He's bad.
He's bad, that's why.
Just thought I'd let you know!
So, Fred.
We have a little
time before dinner.
Do you ever wonder what sex is
going to be like with Jackie,
say in 50 years?
Fred, even though you have
a full beer in your hand,
my guess is that you'd like
to go to the kitchen right now
and get another one.
You read my mind.
All right.
Kid.
Rub my feet, will you?
Wait for me!
Mother, what were you just
trying to pull in there?
Oh, whatever are
you talking about?
OK, Roseanne, you
got to hear this.
For three months now
she's been trying
to get me to go out with Fred.
Now all of a sudden she
doesn't like him anymore.
I don't think Nana
Mary's the only one
around here losing her mind.
Oh, Jenny, give
it to her good!
By the way, when do we
start hunting for the eggs?
I haven't lost my mind.
Maybe I've just changed my mind.
No, I know what you're doing.
What, did you read about
reverse psychology in Ladies
Home Journal or something?
Can you believe this, Roseanne?
[nervous laughter]
No, I don't believe it.
I don't believe it at all!
God, Mom, it's so lame!
Try to Jackie a little credit.
It was her!
It was all her!
She made me do it!
That's so ridiculous!
I did not--
Roseanne!
--say anything like
that, it's totally untrue.
You think I would do--
all right, I did.
I can't believe that you
would use Mom to manipulate me.
Well, I applaud her efforts
to get you two together.
You got pregnant, Jackie.
Now you must face
the consequences
and marry the father.
Oh, come off it, Bev.
You think everybody's got to
make the same stupid mistake
you made?
What?
Mother.
So you got yourself
knocked up with Roseanne
and you had to get married.
That doesn't mean
Jackie has to do it.
You were pregnant with
me before you married Dad?
Damn right, she was.
Now, we always lied about
the day she got married.
She got married June 1952, and
you were born in November 1952.
Do a little math.
You are not senile,
you're just mean!
You promised me that you
would never tell that!
No one in this whole
family cares about me!
My children don't love me!
You don't love me!
I'm all alone, alone!
I'm going after her, Dan.
Release the dogs!
- You OK, Jackie?
- Get out of my way, Fred.
I'm not missing this!
Yeah, Fred, we're
quite a family.
Now that you've got
one of us pregnant,
it's too late to escape.
[evil laughter]
[music playing]
Dad, Mom and Jackie are
still chasing Grandma,
so can you put the
leaves in the table?
Yeah, OK.
Mark'll help you.
No, I can do it.
Fine.
Oh, that's just great, Dad.
You won't even let Mark
help you with the table?
Not that big a job.
It's got nothing
to do with that!
[sighs] Fine, I'll let
him help me with the table.
I know he's looking for work.
He keeps on trying
to be nice to you
and you won't even be in
the same room with him!
[clang] Ow!
- Becky!
- Dad!
What happened?
I burnt my hand!
All right, I'll get some ice.
My hand, it hurts!
Mark, I burnt my hand!
Dunk it under cold water.
No, no, ice is better.
She's all right!
How'd it happen?
It was really stupid--
What's the difference
how it happened--
I grabbed the
pot without a mitt!
--she burned herself!
I'm putting ice on it!
Don't push him!
What the hell's
wrong with you?
Hey, you want to help,
clean up the spill.
I don't need ice, I'm fine!
Hey, everybody,
let's mellow out!
Look, I can handle
this, Dan you know?
Yeah, you can handle it.
What's that supposed to mean?
It means you're living here,
you're handling things great!
You told us to move
in here, you know!
What's the problem now?
My problem is my
daughter married
a guy that can't take of her!
[interposing voices]
DAN: I'm begging
you, do it again!
That's the first time
you've acted like a man
the whole time I've known you!
What in the hell is going on?
Everything's fine, Rosie.
Dan, bedroom!
DJ: Mark hit Dad, and then
Dad hit Mark real hard.
Man, Darlene, you
picked the wrong year
to miss Thanksgiving.
Sorry, Roseanne,
I know it was wrong.
What was it like to hit him?
What?
Oh, was it great?
Did you feel bone?
Roseanne, this
isn't a good thing!
It was stupid!
I could have really hurt him!
Yeah, I know that.
Of course I know that.
You're right.
Man, what a Thanksgiving
this turned out to be, huh?
Mom runs away, and then
you beat up our son-in-law.
Did you draw blood?
Oh, no.
You know, now that I got out of
my system, I feel pretty good.
I think I'm going to
calm down for a minute,
and go out there and apologize.
Hey, Dan.
I'm sorry for taking the
first shot, you know?
You OK?
Yeah.
You?
Nice right.
Hey, you too.
That is, uh, the other side.
Hey.
[laughing]
Wow, man are amazing.
Just like, one shot, OK, you
get it all out of your system
and now you're like buddies?
Maybe you should hit him too!
No, not after
the fight is over,
it would just seem mean now.
Uh, Roseanne?
Your mother is out
on the porch, and she
absolutely does not want you to
go out there and talk to her.
She told me to tell you that.
Hey, maybe it's time to
become buddies with Mom.
[music playing]
Mom, it's cold out here.
Come on.
Come back in the house.
I'm too embarrassed.
I acted like such a fool.
- Yeah, I know.
But this time it was
so extreme that we
all felt really sorry for you.
I'm sorry I didn't
tell you, Roseanne,
but it was a different time.
People didn't talk
about these things.
OK, well, what about
the last two decades?
I'm an adult, I could handle it.
I'm not sure I could have
handled you knowing it.
Are you kidding me?
This is like the coolest thing
I've ever heard about you.
Really?
Then-- then you don't
think less of me?
No way, Mom.
I guess I should have
been honest with you
girls about this years ago.
If I had, maybe Jackie wouldn't
be repeating my mistakes.
Oh, Mom, Jackie's
kid isn't born yet.
She hasn't even begun to
repeat your real mistakes.
Well, this wasn't
nearly as bad as I
thought it was going to be.
Mm, well, wait a
minute, Mom, I'm not
done talking about this yet.
All right, I guess
you have a right
to ask me a few questions.
If you hadn't got
pregnant with me,
would you still
have married Dad?
Well, no.
Do you think that's why
he was mad all the time?
You know, you think
that's why he treated
me and Jackie like he did?
Oh, Roseanne, you know
your father loved you.
Do you think that's why?
Well, I don't know.
OK.
I'm going to ask one
more question, OK?
All right.
Was Dad the only guy that
you were sleeping with,
or is it possible that you've
been lying to me my whole life
about who my real father is?
Of course he was the only one!
Damn.
[music playing]
Bye.
I feel kind of bad
that we're not there.
Why?
They're not even your family.
I know.
I still feel bad.
Don't you miss them?
No, I'm fine here.
Not at all?
No, just shut up.
Want some dinner?
I'm carving.
Sure.
You want light or dark?
You burnt the macaroni?
No, most of it's OK.
Darlene, the fact that
we're having macaroni
and cheese on Thanksgiving is
like, cool and nonconformist,
right?
I mean, it's not pathetic
or anything, is it?
Are you kidding?
This is totally cool.
Yeah.
Cool.
[music playing]
Well, I'm back.
Hope no one missed me.
I always like to take a
little walk before dinner.
If only we lived on
the rim of a volcano.
You OK?
Yeah.
You know, it's funny, but
being unmarried and knocked up
is the first thing I've
ever had in common with Mom.
Well, yeah, that
and the roids.
Dad, me and Mark, Jackie
and Fred, Nana Mary--
Uh, don't sit
Jackie next to Fred.
OK.
Thanks.
Yeah.
After having a talk
with Mom about her life
and all the mistakes
she made, I decided
I'm not going to push you to
get together with Fred anymore.
'Til after the holidays.
So, Becky, how's the hand?
Oh, it's OK.
Well, why don't you go
call everybody for dinner.
You go take all the glory and
I'll take over for you in here.
No, Mom.
I said I'd do everything
and I'll do it.
Oh, don't be a martyr, Becky.
You've been on
your feet all day.
You deserve to sit
down with your husband
and have a nice dinner.
Thanks, Mom.
Dinner's ready!
God, I have to do
everything around here.
[music playing]
Well, Becky, your
first Thanksgiving
is a total success.
Oh, Bev, I'm sorry I
upset you so much before.
I shouldn't have given away your
little secret about how you got
pregnant and had to marry Al.
Mother, what are
you talking about?
Well, you don't have to
get so embarrassed nowadays.
I mean, you threw a tantrum
and ran down the streets
like a raving lunatic.
Mother, that was
Thanksgiving five years ago.
What the hell
you talking about?
DAN: Yeah.
[interposing voices]
No, it wasn't.
Was it?
I know it's hard at your
age, but try to stay with us.
[music playing]